For Immediate Release --

THE WEB STANDARDS PROJECT APPLAUDS XHTML, REMINDS BROWSER VENDORS
THAT CORE STANDARDS COME FIRST

http://www.webstandards.org -- 1 February 2000 -- Furthering its
mission to promote the adoption of standards for the Web, the Web
Standards Project (WaSP) today announced its support for the W3C
Recommendation for XHTML, and reiterated its message to browser
makers that delivering complete support for existing standards --
including XML, CSS, ECMAScript, DOM and HTML -- remains Job #1.

"We congratulate the W3C for its leadership in developing
standards for the Web. But our endorsement of XHTML should not be
misinterpreted as an abandonment of our core issue," said Jeffrey
Zeldman, Group Leader of The Web Standards Project. "Until all
Web browsers deliver 100% support for the core standards outlined
in our mission statement, the Web will continue to fragment, site
development will continue to be excessively costly, and people
who use the Web will continue to be frustrated and excluded."

XHTML -- the Extensible Hypertext Markup Language -- combines the
traditional virtues of HTML with the flexibility and
database-oriented functionality of XML, thus wrapping text and
other data types in a single, extensible standard that embraces
the needs of both content and commerce.

"W3C's Recommendation for XHTML provides the critical and
immediate link between HTML and XML," said Sally Khudairi, a
member of the WaSP Steering Committee. "With its extensible core
architecture, XHTML enables site builders to develop more
flexible Web pages and applications, as well as enhanced
eCommerce functionality."

Simon St. Laurent, another member of the WaSP Steering Committee,
added, "XML's strict rules for conformance give XHTML a backbone
that HTML has never had, and promise to open up new possibilities
for XHTML processing, storage, and creation as the standard
spreads. It's a big step forward."

However, WaSP Steering Committee member Tim Bray cautions, "the
important benefits of XHTML are unachievable without proper and
complete implementations of CSS, XML, and the Document Object
Model."

"Some of these standards are five years old, and all of them were
developed with the cooperation of the browser makers, who pledged
to implement the standards they had helped to create. Web
builders and Web users need these companies to keep their
promise," explained Zeldman. "The good news is, the browser
companies have begun to fully implement some of these standards.
We encourage them to continue, and not to become side-tracked by
the promise of XHTML...which could end up yet another unfulfilled
promise, if the original core standards are not supported first."


Further information on XHTML is available at the W3C Website at
http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/


ABOUT THE WEB STANDARDS PROJECT [WaSP]

The Web Standards Project is an international grassroots
coalition of Web developers and users fighting for standards on
the Web, by calling attention to browser incompatibilities that
fragment the medium, prevent many people from using the Web, and
add 25% to the cost of developing all sites. The WaSP urges all
browser manufacturers to support existing standards before
incorporating proprietary innovations, and is working to educate
Web authors and Web-related software developers so that we may
create a Web that works for everyone. For more information on
WaSP, please see http://www.webstandards.org/


Contact:

Jeffrey Zeldman Group Leader jeffrey@zeldman.com +1.212.725.0847

Tim Bray tbray@textuality.com +1.604.708.9592

Sally Khudairi sk@zotgroup.com +1.617.818.0177


###


